# Turn scripts into internal workflows and UIs in minutes

## Easily create internal tools and apps with code only where it matters. Open source, scalable, reliable, and blazingly fast.

# Scripts

## No overhead, scalable, self-hostable FaaS

### Develop and maintain scripts from our feature-complete webeditor or use your own IDE and deploy from Github. Upskill your less technical teammates. It's easier to learn writing useful scripts with Windmill.

## Items:

- Script Editor
  - LSP: LSP support for Typescript, Python, Go and Bash scripts
  - Autogenerated UI: Share your app with non-technical users without spending time building the UI. It's automatically generated from script parameters, and customizable
  - Secret management: Credentials and sensitive values are tightly permissioned and stored securely as secrets.
- Typescript:
  - Deno: Windmill uses deno as the typescript runtime.
- Python:
  - Python: Windmill provides a python 3.11 environment Dependencies: The imports are automatically analyzed at saving time of the script and the corresponding list of Pypi packages is extracted. A dependency job is then spawned to associate that list of Pypi packages with a lockfile, which will lock the versions.
- Go:
  - ?
- Bash:
  - ?
- PostgreSQL/MySQL:
  - PostgreSQL driver for Deno
  - MySQL client for Deno with focus on performance. Supports prepared statements, non-utf8 encodings, binary log protocol, compression much more
- Deployment:
  - Instant deployment: Deployed instantly when saved
  - Deployement from Github: ?
  - Versioned: Each script is versioned with a unique hash, so you can easily rollback to a previous version if something goes wrong.
- Execute scripts:
  - CLI: We can run scripts using our CLI (https://github.com/windmill-labs/windmill/tree/main/cli)
  - Webhook: Each script created in the app gets two types of autogenerated webhooks, depending on how they are triggered, and what their return values are.
  - UI: You can directly trigger a script using the autogenerated UI.
  - Schedule: Windmill allows you to define schedules for Scripts and Flows. Once a schedule is defined, it will automatically run the script at the set frequency.

# Flows

## Workflow engine on-par with Airflow/Temporal

### Build complex Flows from atomic apps. Automatically trigger apps and Flow from webhooks, a schedule, watching for events, or slack.

- Flow editor:
  - Complex flow editor: ?
- Suspend/Resume
  - Approval: ?
- Branch:
  - Branch one: Branch to one list of modules based on the first predicate that match (evaluated in-order) or the default modules if none match.
  - Branch all: Branch to all branch of modules, from start to end and branches being evaluated in-order. One can decide to skip failure of a particular branch. The result of this module are the branches' results collected as a list.
- For loop:
  - Iterate over list: Trigger for-loops that will iterate over a list and trigger one flow per element. The list is built evaluating the JavaScript expression inside iterator taking result as an input being the result of the previous module.
- ETL/Data processing:
  - ?
- Error handler:
  - Recover from errors: Easily recover from errors and continue your flow or log the error on Slack, Discord, etc.
- Run flows:
  - Webhook: Each flow created in the app gets two types of autogenerated webhooks, depending on how they are triggered, and what their return values are.
  - Schedule: Windmill allows you to define schedules for Scripts and Flows. Once a schedule is defined, it will automatically run the script at the set frequency.
  - Trigger: ?

# Apps

## Easy to use wisiwig app editor

### Build your own UI Simply drag and drop components, connect your data and deploy your app in minutes.

- App editor:
  - Drag and drop: ?
  - Building blocks: ?
- Admin Panel:
  - Build complex admin panel with table, action
- BI/Charts:
  - Dashboard: Pipe your data into charts.

# Enterprise ready platform

## Deploy faster

###  description

- Audit logs:
  - See all past executions, and find the root cause of mishaps quickly.
- OAuth:
  - Windmill natively integrates with OAuth providers to manage access and refresh tokens. If your provider isn't supported yet, we will add it easily.
- RBAC:
  - Define visibility, edit rights and executability for your scripts, resources, schedules, etc, using group and user-level granular permissions.
- Open-source:
  - ?
- Self-hostable:
  - ?
- Air-gapped:
  - ?

# Meet the team

## We are a team of passionate people who are dedicated simplifying and streamlining the process of creating internal tools, making it accessible and efficient for organizations of all sizes.
