# Guide for contributors to Windmill

Thank you for showing interest in contributing to Windmill. Herebelow different
ways of being able to contribute.

## Add a resource type to the WindmillHub

[Resource types](./reference/#resource_types) are simply
[jsonschema](./reference/#jsonschema) whose reason of being is to give a "type"
to resources by constraining the properties or field that the resource can be as
a JSON object. In addition, they serve two main purposes in Windmill:

- filter resources by resource types for the generated UI
- allow to have a way to manually create resources of that resource types using
  the autogenerated UI from their jsonschema. Here for instance the form
  associated to the resource type postgres.

![Add a PG resource](./assets/add_resource_pg.png)

Adding a resource type to the hub will, once approved by the Windmill Team, be
automatically merged into the
[community/ folder of the windmil repo](https://github.com/windmill-labs/windmill/tree/main/community/resource_types)
through a
[github action](https://github.com/windmill-labs/windmill/blob/main/.github/workflows/pull-hub.yml).

Once added to the community folder of the repo, the
[windmill-gh-action-deploy](https://github.com/windmill-labs/windmill-gh-action-deploy)
will deploy it in the starter workspace of Windmill Cloud. Being deployed on the
starter workspace means that it will be available to all workspaces.

To add a resource type to the WindmillHub, go to <https://hub.windmill.dev>,
then in the Resource Types section, Submit a new Resource Type. You can then add
your argument one by one or use the monaco editor to edit it as a jsonschema
directly.

## Add an OAuth provider

To add a new OAuth provider, open a Pull Request to add a new item to:
[backend/oauth_connect.json](https://github.com/windmill-labs/windmill/blob/main/backend/oauth_connect.json).

The format is as follows:

```json
"<name_of_resource_type_for_integration>": {
     "auth_url": "<auth_url>",
     "token_url": "<token_url>",
     "scopes": <the list of default scopes to suggest by default>,
     "extra_params": {
         "<key>": "<val>",
     }
 },
```

where `extra_params` is an escape hatch to deal with OAuth provider that need
some extra fields to be passed along to the authorization URL.

## Add a flow to the WindmillHub

Using the [OpenFlow](./openflow) portable format, one can simply either copy and
paste the exported Json of the flow in the
[WindmillHub](https://hub.windmill.dev) Flow section -> "Submit a new Flow", or
click 'Publish to Hub' in the flow editor directly.

![Publish to Hub](./assets/export_flow.png)

Once a flow is approved by the Windmill Team, it will be directly integrated
into the flows page of **every workspace of every instances of Windmill**.

![Approved flow](./assets/approved_flows.png)

## Add a script or trigger script to the WindmillHub

The [WindmillHub](https://hub.windmill.dev) only supports deno scripts. You can
add a trigger or standard script to the Hub by going to the appropriate section
and click "Submit a new script" or "Submit a new trigger script", then give it
an explicit summary and submit.

![Add new script](./assets/add_new_script.png)

Once approved by the Windmill team, the script or trigger script will be
available for all to use directly inside their flows.

![Pick a hub script](./assets/pick_a_hub_script.png)
